# **Sylius® Amendment**

## Preamble

This document is an amendment to the Holacracy® Constitution. For more information, please see <a rel="license" href="https://holacracy.org">holacracy.org</a>.

The Organization and its Partners steward a space for creating and exchanging Value among Organizations and Individuals, the ***"Market"***.

## Article 1: Value

Value generated by the Organizations and Individuals can be defined as: Services, Products or Relationship Types.

### 1.1 Service Definition

A ***“Service”*** is an organizational process that generates value in the Market. Service definition consists of:

- **(a)** a descriptive name.
- **(b)** a unique code.
- **(c)** a ***“Purpose”***, which is a capacity, potential, or goal that the Organization provides through the Service.

A Service can have another service as it's Parent-Service as long as their purposes are aligned and its generated value has more depth relative to the Partent-Service.

### 1.2 Product Definition

A ***“Product”*** is a concept of a tangible or intangible property of value that can be consumed in the Market. Product definition consists of:

- **(a)** a descriptive name.
- **(b)** a unique code.
- **(c)** a ***“Purpose”***, which is a capacity, potential, or goal that the product realizes.

A Product can have another Product as it's Parent-Product if at least one of the following is true:

- **(a)** Its existence depends on the existence of the Parent-Product.
- **(b)** It is clearly distingushable part of the Parent-Product.

### 1.2.1 Tangible and Intangible Products

Every ***Product*** can be characterised as **Tangible** if it's a concrete object that can be touched or **Intangible** if it's a subtle object that can only be perceived indirectly.

### 1.2.2 Product Instance Definition

A ***Product Instance*** is a unique **Tangible** or **Intangible**  manifestation of a given ***Product***.

#### 1.2.3 Fungible and Non-Fungible Products

If any pair of **Product Instances** are considered to be identical in specification and can be mutually substituted, then the **Product** is considered to be **Fungible**.

#### 1.2.4 Product Licenses

A ***Product License*** is a specific permission granted to an **Individual** or **Organization** related to a particular **Product**, and defined as:

- **(a)** a descriptive name.
- **(b)** a unique code.
- **(c)** a ***“Purpose”***, which is a capacity, potential, or goal to be expressed by this license.

A Product License can have another service as it's Parent-License as long as it expands or amends the permissions granted by the Parent-License.

#### 1.2.5 Licensing

Any role can grant **Individual** or **Organization** (Grantee) a unique token of given ***Product License*** which then becomes a ***Granted License***. It can be granted for a limited scope of time.

### 1.3 Relationship Type Definition

A ***“Relationship Type”*** is a type of relationship that can be formed between the Organization and other Organizations or Individuals. Relationship Type definition consists of:

- **(a)** a descriptive name.
- **(b)** a unique code.
- **(c)** a ***“Purpose”***, which is a capacity, potential, or goal that is meant to be expressed through this relationship.

A Relationship Type can have another type as it's Parent-Relationship-Type as long as their purposes are aligned and its overall depth is greater than Parent-Relationship Type's.

### 1.4 Creating and Controlling Value Definitions

Any Role can create a new Value Definition by publishing the decision and the Definition itself. This role automatically gains a Domain over this Definition, unless a Policy specifies otherwise.

## Article 2: Market Foundations

### 2.1 Individuals and Organizations

The agents in the Market are defined as Organizations and Individuals.

#### 2.1.1 Individual Definition

An ***“Individual”*** is a natural person. Individual definition consists of:

- **(a)** first and last name.
- **(b)** an unique email address.

#### 2.1.1 Organization Definition

An ***“Organization*** is a legal person/entity. Organization definition consists of:

- **(a)** its legal name.
- **(b)** its short/common name.

### 2.3 Geography

A ***“Geography*** is specific chunk of the Market's physical dimension defined as:

- **(a)** its name.
- **(b)** its unique code.
- **(c)** its type.

Default geography types are as follows, ordered by depth:

- Planet
- Continent
- Continental Section
- Country
- Region
- City
- Address

A Geography can have another Geography as it's Parent-Geography as long as it is its part.

##### 2.3.1 Address Definition

An ***"Address"*** is a precise geographical location, defined as:

- **(a)** Street
- **(b)** Geography: Country
- **(c)** Geography: Region
- **(d)** Geography or text: City
- **(e)** Postalcode

### 2.3 Locales and Product Exchange Rates

Every Locale defined as name and ISO code. 

An Exchange Rate is a pair and ratio between fungible Products (e.g. currencies).

### 2.4 General Market, Sub-Markets and Channels

The broadest space of the Organization's Market is its "General Market", which corresponds to the broadest defined Geography. Each Market is defined as:

- **(a)** its name.
- **(b)** its unique code.
- **(c)** its corresponding Geography.
- **(d)** its default Locale and Currency.
- **(e)** its Parent-Market. (optional)

The General Market has no Parent-Market.

### Measurements

All measurements in the **Market** can be standardized into ***Measurement Types and Units***.

## Article 3: Agreements

All Agents of the Market can make mutually beneficial ***"Agreements"*** defined as a contract duly executed and legally binding in the Market. The definition consists of:

- **(a)** a descriptive and unique title
- **(b)** a list of Agents who are a party to this agreement
- **(c)** the time and date (incl. the timezone) of the completion

Depending on how the contract was executed, an ***Agreement*** can be considered as: *Verbal*, *Written*, *Notarial* or *Smart Agreement*.

## Article 4: Exchanges

***"Exchange"*** is a special type of ***Agreement*** in which the parties exchange an explicitly defined ***Value*** based on standard or custom ***Offerings***. 

Depending on the perspective taken by one of the parties, an exchange can be a ***Purchase*** or ***Sale***.

### 4.1 Channels

All Exchanges take place through one of the transactional **Channels**, which can be any way that the actual agreement is made. The definition consists of:

- **(a)** its name.
- **(b)** its unique code.
- **(c)** its unique physical or digital address.
- **(d)** at least one or more languages available

#### 4.1.1 Awareness and Exchange Channels

Whenever a Channel is non-transactional, which means that Agents cannot make an Agreement through it, it is considered an Awareness Channel. All transactional Channels can be considered Awareness or Exchange Channels, depending on the context.

### 4.2 Offering Definition

A ***“Offering”*** is a Value Exchange proposition that can be opened or closed in a specific Market. Offering definition consists of:

- **(a)** a descriptive name.
- **(b)** a ***“Purpose”***, which is a capacity, potential, or goal that specific Offering.
- **(d)** at least one or more Offering Components, referencing Services, Products, specific Product Instances, Product Licenses or Relationship Types, each with their ***"Pricing"***.

The **Offering** can be opened for a specific timeframe. All **Offerings** open in the Parent-Market are also open in any of its Sub-Markets. 

### 4.3 Quantities

Each **Offering Component** can have its specific ***Quantity*** defined, being 1 by default.

### 4.3 Pricing Strategies and Formulas

Each **Offering Component** must have a ***Pricing Strategy and Formula*** defined, whereas any Role or software calculating the price must use their best effort interpretation to determine the final price.

## Article 5: Internal Market

By the virtue of stewarding the Market space (the "External" Market), the Organisation itself becomes the "Internal" Market and can make perform agreements and exchanges between it various parts.

### 5.1 Micro-Enterprise Status

Any role or circle can gain a **Micro-Enterprise** by any Circle Lead publishing the decision to do so and getting "No objection" from all other Circle Leads or Circle Reps of that role.

### 5.2 Micro-Enterprise Accountabilities

Every Micro-Enterprise gains additional accountabilities:

- Creating, systemizing and evolving Value relevant to the purpose
- Exchanging the relevant value on the external market via all possible channels
- Tracking best effort approximation of revenue, expenses and the resulting P&L

---

# **Appendix A**

## Market Steward

**Purpose:** _Steward the Market and hold the Purpose of the Anchor Circle._

**Domains:**

- Market's structure

**Accountabilities:**

- Defining the Geography and Market's structure
- Defining the key taxonomies used in the Market
- Defining the standard measurement units used in the Market

_The Circle Lead also holds all Accountabilities on the Circle to the extent they are not covered by the Circle's Roles or processes._

---

This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

---
